1. Community description and structure
- diveristy indices - alpha diversity (Whittaker, 1960) -> diversity in one spot.
					- Shannon diversity & Pielou evenness (others?)

- rarefaction curves - because sp richness increases with sample size, and differences in sp
richness might be caused by differences in sample size -> solved by rarefying sp richness 
to the same number of individuals - to get an expected number of species in a community. 
Often seen as objective solution for comparing sp richness with different sample sizes. But rank
orders typically differ among different rarefaction sample sizes, so rarefaction curves can cross.
  --> first aggregate data frame by site/year, then apply!
 
- taxonomic and functional diversity indices - to judge the differences of species. Either can be used
with either taxonomic or functional traits of species. 
	- taxonomic diversity - average distance of traits: tax.diversity, tax.distinctness. Indices give
	values for a single site. 
	Need taxonomic differences among species to calculate indices -> any distance structure among species,
	but usually found from established hierarchic taxonomy. Typical differences coding: species in the 
	same genus = 1, same family = 2,... Tax.differences scaled to max 100 for easier comparison b/n 
	different datasets and taxonomies. OR possible to scale steps between tax.levels proportional to 
	reduction in number of categories: if almost all genera have only one sp, it does not matter much if
	two individuals belong to a different sp or a different genus. 

	- functional diversity - height of trait tree. (Petchey and Gaston, 2002, 2006)
	Primary data: species traits, translated to pairwise distances among species then to clustering trees
	of species traits -> in this way, a single deviant species will have a small influence, since its 
	difference is evaluated only once instead of evaluating its distance to all other species.
	Functional diversity = total branch length in a trait dendrogram connecting all species, but excluding 
	the unnecessary root segments of the tree.
	
- sp abundance models 
	- ranked abundance distribution - plot log abundances in decreasing order, or against ranks of species
	(ranked abundance distribution curves, sp abundance curves, dominance-diversity curves, Whittaker plots)

- sp accumulation and beta diversity - study collections of sites and their sp richness, or try to estimate
the number of unseen species.
	- sp accumulation models - similar to rarefaction: study the accumulation of species when the nb of sites
	increases. Several alternative methods: accumulating sites in the order they happen to be, repeated 
	accumulation in random order,.. 
	3 analytic models; recommended - Kindt's exact method. 
	
	- beta diversity (Whittaker, 1960) - diversity along gradients. Should thus be studied with respect to 
	gradients, but most commonly - applied as measure of general heterogeneity (Tuomisto, 2010): how many 
	more sp in a collection of sites compared to an average site.
	Best known index - based on the ratio of total nb of sp in a collection of sites S and the average 
	richness per one site. b = 0 when no excess species or no heterogeneity between sites. 
	Problematic because S increases with the nb of sites even when they are all subsets of the same 
	community.
	-> could be found from pairwise comparison of sites instead - Sorensen index of dissimilarity.
	Can be studied with respect to classes or factors -> betadisper (-> does mutivariate PCoA)
	
- sp pool
	- nb of unseen species -> not all species are seen at any site, but the unseen sp also belong to the sp 
	pool.
	specpool (collection of sites), estimateR (counts of individuals, can be used on a single site) - both 
	assume that nb of unseen sp is related to nb of rare sp, or sp seen only once or twice. Species grouped 
	by their nb of occurrences. Nb of missing species estimated by jacknife - we missed about as many species 
	as we saw only once; or bootstrap - if we repeat sampling from the same data (with replacement), we miss 
	as many sp as we missed originally.
	
	
	
	